.TH A2-COMMANDS 1 "October 2025" "a2 Manual"

.SH NAME
a2-commands \- Detailed list of commands for the a2 editor

.SH DESCRIPTION
This page provides a detailed list of all commands available in Command Mode (activated by pressing ':' in Normal Mode).

.SH FILE COMMANDS
.TP
.B :w [filename]
Write (save) the current buffer. If a `filename` is provided, saves to that new file.
.TP
.B :q
Quit the current window. Exits `a2` if it's the last window.
.TP
.B :q!
Force quit, discarding any unsaved changes.
.TP
.B :wq
Write the file and then quit.
.TP
.B :open <filename>
Open a file in the current window.
.TP
.B :new
Create a new empty buffer.
.TP
.B :rc / :rc!
Reload or force-reload the current file from disk.

.SH NAVIGATION & EDITING COMMANDS
.TP
.B :ff
Open the Fuzzy Finder to quickly search for and open any file in the project.
.TP
.B :..
Switch to the alternate (previously opened) file. Use again to toggle back.
.TP
.B :s/find/repl/[flag]
Search and replace text. The `flag` can be a number (to replace N times), or `l` followed by a line number (e.g., `l25`) to replace only on that line.
.TP
.B :diff <file1> <file2>
Show the difference between two files.
.TP
.B :grep <term>
Search for a `term` across all files in the project. The search runs in the background.
.TP
.B :showgrep
Display the results of the last completed grep search.

.SH WINDOW & UI COMMANDS
.TP
.B :explorer
Open the file explorer in a new split window.
.TP
.B :term [command]
Runs the specified `command` in a new terminal split.
.TP
.B :mtw <ws_num>
Move the current window to the specified workspace (1-9).
.TP
.B :theme <name>
Load and apply a theme. Themes are loaded from the `themes` directory. Use Tab to autocomplete theme names.

.SH GIT COMMANDS
.TP
.B :gstatus
Show the output of `git status` in a new terminal window.
.TP
.B :gadd <file>
Stage a file for the next commit. Use `.` to stage all changes.
.TP
.B :gcommit [message]
Run `git commit`. If a `message` is provided, it is used with the `-m` flag. Otherwise, runs interactively.
.TP
.B :gpush
Run `git push` in a new terminal window.
.TP
.B :gpull
Run `git pull` in a new terminal window.

.SH PROJECT COMMANDS
.TP
.B :save-project [name]
Saves the current session (open files, layout, etc.) to a named file within the project's .a2 directory. Defaults to "session" if no name is given.
.TP
.B :load-project <name>
Loads a named project session from the .a2 directory.
.TP
.B :list-projects
Lists all saved project sessions found in the .a2 directory.

.SH LSP COMMANDS
.TP
.B :lsp-definition
Jump to the definition of the symbol under the cursor.
.TP
.B :lsp-status
Check the status of the LSP server.
.TP
.B :lsp-restart
Restart the LSP server.
.TP
.B :lsp-list
Display all current diagnostics in a list.

.SH OTHER COMMANDS
.TP
.B :help
Show the main `a2(1)` man page.
.TP
.B :ksc
Show the keyboard shortcuts quick reference screen.
.TP
.B :set <option> [value]
Change a setting. Options: `wrap`, `nowrap`, `paste`, `nopaste`, `bar <0|1>`.
.TP
.B :set themedir <path>
Set a persistent custom directory for themes, saved in ~/.a2_themedir.
.TP
.B :savemacros / :loadmacros
Save or load user-defined macros to/from `~/.a2_macros`.
.TP
.B :![shell_cmd]
Execute a shell command and display the output.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B a2(1)
, 
.B a2-shortcuts(1)