.TH A2-SHORTCUTS 1 "October 2025" "a2 Manual"

.SH NAME
a2-shortcuts \- Keyboard shortcuts for the a2 editor

.SH DESCRIPTION
This page provides a list of keyboard shortcuts for use in `a2`.

.SH GLOBAL & WORKSPACE/WINDOW MANAGEMENT
.TP
.B Alt+F / Alt+D, E
Open the Fuzzy Finder to search for any file in the project.
.TP
.B Alt+t
Open the Command Palette.
.TP
.B Alt+S
Start a project-wide content search (grep) that runs in the background.
.TP
.B Ctrl+] / Ctrl+[
Navigate to the next/previous window (split).
.TP
.B Alt+N / Alt+M
Navigate to the next/previous workspace.
.TP
.B Alt+X
Close the active window.
.TP
.B Ctrl+W
Create a new workspace.
.TP
.B Alt+Enter
Create a new split window.
.TP
.B Alt+.
Cycle through available window layouts.
.TP
.B Alt+R
Rotate windows within the current layout.
.TP
.B Alt+[1-9]
Move the active window to the specified workspace.
.TP
.B Alt+D, D
Open GDB in a new workspace.
.TP
.B Alt+Z, Z
Open the directory navigator.
.TP
.B Alt+Z, S
Show git status in a new window.

.SH NORMAL MODE
.TP
.B i
Enter .B Insert Mode.
.TP
.B v
Enter .B Visual Mode.
.TP
.B :
Enter .B Command Mode.
.TP
.B yy
Yank (copy) the current line.
.TP
.B p / P
Paste from the local/global register.
.TP
.B u / U
Create a new line above/below and enter Insert Mode.
.TP
.B J
Join the current line with the line below.
.TP
.B q[a-z]
Start or stop recording a macro into the specified register.
.TP
.B @[a-z]
Playback a macro from the specified register.
.TP
.B Alt+c
Toggle comment on the current line or visual selection.

.SH INSERT MODE
.TP
.B Esc
Return to .B Normal Mode.
.TP
.B Ctrl+O
Enter Normal Mode for a single command, then return to Insert.
.TP
.B Ctrl+P
Create a new line above the current line.
.TP
.B Ctrl+L
Create a new line below the current line.
.TP
.B Tab
Context-aware: Indents if at start of line, otherwise triggers LSP completion.

.SH VISUAL MODE
.TP
.B s
Start or end a character-wise selection.
.TP
.B y
Yank (copy) the selection to the window's local register.
.TP
.B m
Cut the selection to the special "move" register.
.TP
.B Alt+Y
Copy the selection to the system clipboard.

.SH EXPLORER MODE
.TP
.B j,k / Arrow Keys
Navigate up and down the file list.
.TP
.B Enter
Open a file or enter a directory.
.TP
.B q
Close the explorer window.
.B n
Create a new file
.B N
Create a new folder
.B r
Rename the file

.SH SEE ALSO
.B a2(1)
, 
.B a2-commands(1)
